- A pure microservices architecture can be,
to many teams, a very daunting task.
In addition to the work comprised
of moving to this architecture,
the unknown unknown, so to speak,
can be hard to wrap into a roadmap.
In addition to this,
there are some really hard problems to solve,
like database segmentation and service boundaries,
that in the untrained eye of your customers
may offer no real, tangible value.
As such, there are concrete steps you can take
in the interim to gain some of the benefits
of a microservices architecture
without going full bore into the matrix.
One of my favorite hybrid architectures in this space
is a hierarchical service model.
While many thought leaders in this space
will strongly advise against this
because of the dynamics around team coupling that can occur,
it does prevent some of the risks
of circular dependencies in the network,
which, as we have discussed,
can bring a system to its knees.
In a hierarchical microservices architecture,
you define rules about which service types can
or cannot consume other service types.
One common pattern is based off the old n-tier model
and it's the one that I personally
have had success in working in,
especially during the migration of the system
to a microservices model.
In the n-tier hierarchy model,
you may define a few different classes of services.
One common class is the Data Service
that exposes data domain-specific logic completely
to the outside world.
Another common class is the Business Process Services
that define high-level business processes
that are well-defined.
You may also create Gateway Services
that build abstractions to external dependencies.
And finally, you may define Edge Services
that expose your data and business processes
to the outside world.
Once you have a clear taxonomy build about
what tasks each of these services do,
you can then start to build out rules about
what services can consume.
You may want to look at the risks
of a circular call tree
and make a rule that no data service
can consume another data service
without being involved in a business process.
And all consumption of Gateway Services is
through the same business processes,
but not between each other.
Now, this complex set of rules may, at face value,
seem like an easy way to prevent issues.
The reality is that they come with risks.
Often, you have to adjust your logic
and flow through the system
to accommodate your artificially imposed rules.
You may find yourself building
and defining business processes that don't really exist
in order to play nice in your own sandbox,
sometimes to the point of simple pass-through services,
which do nothing but add artificial latency.
Take this hybrid model lightly
and consider only doing it as a transition method.
Another very common architecture is the
so-called service-based architecture.
In my mind, this is very similar to the SOA model
in which you leave the underlying databases alone
and simply carve out your services.
By migrating your architecture
to this service-based flow,
you can gain some of the agility improvements
of the microservices model
without sharding your data into separate datastores.
Again, while this hybrid model has some value,
take it lightly.
While this does start you down the journey
to microservices and is a great starting point,
as I had previously mentioned,
it can also lead to the so-called monolith
of monolith system.
When your service offering extend
beyond the original scope
because you don't have well-defined domains,
you end up hurting yourself in the long run.
There are many other hybrid models you can see patterned
by leading companies or even in your own mind,
and while they may solve some issues,
they probably come with some baggage as well.
Consider all the benefits and risks
of any model before diving in head first.
Make sure you can manage the risks
and maximize your rewards.